[Music]
how to improve your hearing oh sorry
how do you improve your hearing probably
helps if I don't whisper huh you know
hearing problems have a way of sneaking
up on us as we get older next thing you
know you've got the TV volume on full
blast and you constantly have to ask
people to speak up is there anything you
can actually do now to make the problem
less severe later on of course there is
and we're going to tell you exactly what
you can do to improve your hearing so
sit back relax and listen carefully
before we start don't forget to
subscribe to our Channel and turn on
post notifications so that you won't
miss any of our new videos alright
counting down from number eight avoid
loud noises loud noise is the main enemy
of good hearing the further you stay
away from it the better
but how much noise is too much even
though this can be purely subjective
there are a couple of objective ways to
estimate it if you're in doubt basically
if you need to raise your voice in order
to speak to other people or to make them
hear you you find it difficult to hear
what others around you are saying your
ears hurt you have muffled hearing
afterwards or your ears start ringing
all of these are signs that the
environment you're in is too loud noise
levels are measured in something called
decibels the principle is simple the
higher the number the louder the noise
any sound over 85 decibels can be
damaging to your ears especially if
you're exposed to it for long periods of
time to put it in perspective for you
here's how many decibels the most common
sounds are whispering is about 30 dB two
people having a conversation is already
60 the danger zone starts with traffic
noise which ranges from 80 to 85 dB the
sound of a motorcycle is 90 dB if you
like to blare music through your
headphone
that's 100 DB and finally the noise of
an airplane taking off is around 120 DB
modern technology allows us to measure
noise levels in the palm of our hands
with just a couple of clicks all you got
to do is install an app on your
smartphone calibrate it accordingly and
there you go you'll always know what
poses a serious threat to your precious
hearing number-7 be careful when
listening to music we've already
mentioned that listening to loud music
through your headphones or earphones is
a whopping 100 DB which is a lot higher
than the 85 decibel limit experts have
said to keep your ear safe still it
continues to be one of the most common
reasons for hearing loss people can't
help but to turn the volume all the way
up on their music so that it mutes any
external sounds around them but there's
a much safer way to do that without
giving up your love of listening to
music through your earphones stick to
the following rules and you'll minimize
any possible risks first of all up for
noise cancelling headphones instead of
turning the volume all the way up to
drown out the world around you and make
it a habit to adjust the volume to the
point where you can hear the music
comfortably but no higher this is
usually about sixty percent of the
maximum volume or less finally don't use
your headphones or earphones for more
than an hour at a time
take at least a 10 minute break to let
your ears breathe and to protect them
from infection
number six protect your ears at loud
events the national institute of
deafness and other communication
disorders warns that when we're exposed
to loud noises over a long period of
time we start losing our hearing without
even realizing it since the damage
caused by exposure to loud noises is
usually gradual it goes unnoticed until
the symptoms become more pronounced plus
according to the experts from this
institute loud noise exposure can also
cause 10 tinnitus which is a ringing
buzzing or roaring in the ears or head
this is a serious problem because it can
lead to hearing loss in both ears that's
why it's crucial to protect your ears
from exceptionally loud noise you find
at concerts bars nightclubs sporting
events and any other really loud places
and when you're at these venues try to
move away from the source of all the
noise and take a break from it every 15
minutes be sure to give your ears about
18 hours to recover after exposing them
to excessive noise now you might
consider wearing earplugs - these days
there are all kinds of them musicians
earplugs for instance are reusable and
they reduce sound volume without
distorting it the choice is yours to
make hey I wear earplugs to the movies
it can get really loud in those action
scenes and I find they work great I can
still hear the movie just fine and my
ears don't hurt afterwards number 5 add
some cardio to your life yep you can
totally enhance your hearing with
exercise in an interesting study
published in the Journal of Neuroscience
a team of researchers from the
University of Florida School of Medicine
found a strong connection between the
cardiovascular system and the functional
ability of the organs and tissues in the
inner ear basically with increased
levels of cardiovascular health come
increased levels of hearing sensitivity
exercising you promote blood circulation
that travels to the tiny bones and
muscles in your ear when blood flow is
facilitated through exercise
nutrients like antioxidants and
protective heat-shock proteins travel
throughout your system and improve your
hearing in order to prevent hearing loss
you need to perform large muscle
movements such as walking cycling and
swimming five days a week for at least
twenty to thirty minutes at a time if
these types of activities aren't really
your cup of tea replace them with
aerobic exercises they're great at
getting the heart pumping and the blood
flowing with regular workouts you'll not
only keep your hearing safe
you'll get your whole body in shape too
sounds like a win-win to me number four
train your brain you know the human
brain plays an important role in
processing the sound information that
our ears receive a recent study by the
University of Pennsylvania shows that
there's a link between hearing loss and
mental health conditions such as anxiety
and depression the study suggests that
hearing loss may lead to gray matter
atrophy in the auditory areas of the
brain particularly in older adults so
doing some mental exercises can get your
brain juices flowing and enhance your
hearing for example one of the surefire
ways to train your brain is strategic
games things like crossword puzzles and
brainteasers provide a great mental
workout building on the brain's capacity
to form and hold on to cognitive
associations you can do puzzles or play
cards board games or word or number
games like Scrabble and Sudoku you can
also try having conversations over
background noises at home turn the TV or
radio on at a normal volume and have a
chat with your family in the same room
focus on the conversation while ignoring
other sounds this will help your mind
concentrate more on what's important and
train your ears to tune out unnecessary
sounds on their own playing a game
called find the source of the sound
is also great for hearing health plus
it's just outright fun to play with your
friends and family all you got to do is
close your eyes and ask someone to
quietly move to different parts of the
room or house and make noises you
then have to identify the direction of
the sound and what the source is see fun
and useful there's one more exercise you
can do and it's all about recognizing
different types of sounds go to a
relatively quiet place close your eyes
and focus on figuring out what all the
sounds are in your environment both the
close and distant ones the more you
practice this exercise the more sound
you'll be able to recognize if you
already have trouble hearing you'll
quickly notice the situation changing
for the better number three do some yoga
if you're still saying no to the whole
cardio thing you can say yes to yoga
it's widely practice for its variety of
health benefits and improved hearing is
one of them according to dr. Manoj she
will ook are a practicing physician and
certified medical and clinical research
writer the main goal of these yoga
exercises is to increase blood
circulation in your ear and brain
increased circulation helps improve
nerve function and flushes waste and
toxins from the body yoga poses with
deep breathing exercises increase oxygen
blood flow to the ear + the stretching
and muscle relaxation that come along
with yoga have a positive impact on the
heart circulation and blood pressure
here are a couple of yoga poses you can
include in your routine the tree pose is
a good stretching and breathing exercise
that benefits your arms chest abdominals
spine and leg muscles the triangle pose
boosts your spines flexibility relieves
back aches and massages and tones your
pelvic organs all while twisting you
into a pretzel the bow pose gives an
excellent massage to your abdominals and
activate your digestive system the cobra
pose opens up your chest relieves
tension and strengthens your back
muscles and there you have it your
training session is ready no special
equipment needed so what are you waiting
for give yoga a shot for improving
hearing and overall physical and mental
health
number 2 change your diet
your diet also influences your hearing
health to a certain extent so it needs
to contain nutrient-rich foods needed
for good health and normal ear function
make sure that your diet is low in
saturated animal fat and refined
carbohydrates fatty foods are no good
since they reduce the blood supply to
the ears and other parts of the body due
to cholesterol buildup as for other
changes you should consider try to eat
more freshwater fish like salmon trout
and herring and add plenty of nuts seeds
whole grains and most importantly fresh
vegetables and fruits to your daily
meals be sure to get lots of
antioxidants in your system as well they
fight the aging process throughout the
body and neutralize free radicals that
build up in the body and cause damage
getting enough vitamins b3 b6 b9 and b12
is a must - vitamin b3 promotes blood
circulation to the ears and throughout
the whole body by expanding the blood
vessels vitamin b6 is needed for healthy
nerve function in vitamins b9 and b12
play an important role in the normal
functioning of the brain and nervous
system as well as in the formation of
blood cells and DNA vitamin b12
deficiency can be linked to age-related
auditory dysfunction so it's essential
to consume adequate levels of these
vitamins through food or supplements and
number one keep your outer ear canal
clean sometimes the easiest solution is
the most effective one so before you do
anything drastic double check whether or
not your ears are clean build up debris
and earwax are common causes for sudden
hearing loss earwax is generally a good
thing to have in small amounts since it
has protective antibacterial properties
and while most of the time the ear canal
is like a self-cleaning oven it does get
clogged which can cause partial hearing
loss
most people use q-tips to deep clean
their ears but the truth is they can do
more harm than good since they can
easily push the wax deeper into the ear
canal leading to ear wax buildup and
more serious problems
so what methods of ear cleaning are safe
experts suggest using drops of mineral
oil or baby oil to unclog your ear you
can also use drops of hydrogen peroxide
to clean your ears and dissolve earwax
safely just be aware that they might
cause a mild burning sensation for a few
minutes a syringe can do a pretty good
cleaning job to use it to gently rinse
out the ear canal with water or saline
solution
this technique is usually more effective
if some type of wax softener is applied
about 15 to 30 minutes before irrigating
and that's basically all you need to
know to improve your hearing and prevent
hearing loss in the future just be sure
to consult your doctor if you ever
experience sudden hearing loss this
issue can potentially be a symptom of
other serious medical problems so don't
waste time if the problem is severe or
it may progress into something way worse
hey are you hearing this okay do you
take good care of your ears what do you
do to prevent hearing loss tell us about
that in the comments below don't forget
to give us a like and click that
subscribe button to stay on the bright
side of life
[Music]
you